Hi I'm Dan Jurafsky and Chris Manning and
I are very happy to welcome you to our
course on Natural Language Processing.
This is a particularly exciting time to be
working on natural language processing.
The vast amount of data on the web and
social media have made it possible
to build fantastic new applications.
Let's look at one of them,
question answering.
You may know that IBM's Watson won
the Jeopardy challenge on February 16th
In 2011, answering questions
like WIliam Wilkinson's
book inspired this author's
most famous novel.
And you may know that the answer is
Bram Stoker who famously wrote Dracula.
Another important task is
information extraction.
For example imagine that I have the
following email from my colleague Chris
about scheduling a meeting.
We'd like software to automatically notice
that there are dates like tomorrow,
times like 10 to 11:30 and
a room like Gates 159,
extract those information,
create a new calendar entry, and
then populate a calendar with this kind
of structured information with the event,
date, start, and end for
a calendar program.
And modern email and calendar programs
are capable of doing this from text.
Another application of this kind of
information extraction involves sentiment
analysis.
Imagine that you're
interested in cameras and
you're reading a lot of
reviews of cameras on the web.
So here's a bunch of reviews.
We'd like to automatically determine,
from the reviews,
that what people care about in
cameras are particular attributes.
If they're buying a camera,
they want to know if it has good zoom, or
affordability, or size and
weight, to want to automatically
determine those attributes.
And then we'd like to automatically for
any particular attribute, determine how
the reviewers felt about those attributes.
For example, if a reviewer said nice and
compact to carry,
that's a positive sentiment, and
here's another positive example.
But a phrase like flimsy
is a negative sentiment.
So we'd like to automatically detect for
each sentence what the sentiment is, and
then aggregate for each features, for
let's say, for zoom, for affordability.
So we might decide that this camera,
the reviews really liked the flash, but
they weren't so
happy about the ease of use.
So we might measure the positive and
negative sentiment about each
attribute and then aggregate those.
Machine translation is another
important new application and
machine translation can
be fully automatic.
So for example, we might have
a source sentence in Chinese and
here's Stanford's Phrasal MT system
translating that into English.
But MT can also be used to
help human translators, so
here we might have an Arabic text.
And the human translator translating
it into English, might need some help
from the MT system, for example,
a collection of possible next words
that the MT system can build automatically
and help the human translator.
Let's look at the state of
the art in language technology.
Like every field, NLP is divided up
into specialties and subspecialties.
A number of these problems
are pretty close to solved.
So for example spam detection, well
it's very hard to completely detect spam
in our email boxes,
we don't have 99% spam, and
that's because spam detection is
a relatively easy classification task.
A couple of important component tasks,
part of speech tagging and
named entity tagging.
We'll talk about those
later in the course, and
those work at pretty high accuracies,
we're going to get 97% accuracy
on part of speech tagging and
we see how that's important for parsing.
In other tasks,
we're making good progress.
Not as commercial,
not as completely solved, but there
are systems out there that are being used.
So we talked about sentiment analysis,
the task of deciding thumbs up or
thumbs down on a sentence or a product.
Component technologies like word sentence
disambiguation, deciding if we're talking
about a rodent or a computer mouse when
people talk about mouses in a search.
We'll talk about parsing,
which is good enough now to be
used in lots of applications, and
machine translation usable on the web.
A number of applications
however are still quite hard.
So for example,
answering hard questions like
how effective is this medicine in treating
that disease by looking at the web or
by summarizing information
we know is quite hard.
Similarly, while we made some progress
on deciding that the sentence,
XYZ company acquired
ABC company yesterday,
means something similar to ABC
has been taken over by XYZ.
The general problem of detecting that two
phrases or sentences mean the same thing,
the paraphrase task, is still quite hard.
Even harder is the task of summarization.
Reading a number of let's say news
articles that say, the Dow Jones is up, or
the S&P 500 has jumped, and
housing prices rose, and aggregating that
to give a user information like
in summary, the economy is good.
And finally, one of the hardest tasks
in natural language processing,
carrying on a complete human
machine communication and dialogue.
So here's a simple example, asking
about what movie is playing when and
buying movie tickets.
And you can get applications
that do that today.
But the general problem of understanding
everything the user might ask for
and returning a sensible
response is quite difficult.
Why is natural language processing so
difficult?
One cute example are the kinds
of ambiguity problems that
are called crash blossoms.
So ambiguity is any case where a surface
form might have multiple interpretations.
A crash blossom is the name for a kind
of headline that has two meanings and
the ambiguity causes
a humorous interpretation.
So reading this first headline, Violinist
Linked to JAL Crash Blossoms, you
might think that the main verb is linked,
and the violinist is being linked to what?
He's being linked to
Japan Airlines crash blossoms.
Well what are crash blossoms?
Well this headline gave the name to
this phenomena because the actual
interpretation that the headline writer
intended, the main verb was blossoms.
Who does the blossoming, a violinist.
And this fact about being linked to
JAL crash was a modifier of violinist.
Similar kinds of syntactic ambiguities,
so here, Teacher Strikes Idle Kids.
The writer intended
the main verb to be idle,
the strikes caused the kids to be idle.
But of course the humorous interpretation
is that the teacher is striking,
strike is the verb, and
we have a teacher striking idle kids.
Another important kind of
ambiguity is word sense ambiguity.
So in our third example, Red Tape Holds
Up New Bridges, the writer intended
holds up to mean something like delay,
we'll call that sense one of holds up.
But the amusing interpretation
is the second sense of holds up,
which we might write down as to support.
And now we get the interpretation
that literal red tape,
as opposed to beaurocratic red tape,
is actually supporting a bridge.
And we can see lots of other kinds of
ambiguities in these actual headlines.
Now it turns out that it's not just
amusing headlines that have ambiguity.
Ambiguity is pervasive throughout
natural language texts.
Let's look at a sensible, nonambiguous
looking headline from the New York Times.
The headline, we've shortened it here
a bit, is Fed raises interest rates.
Well that seems unambiguous.
We have a verb here,
I'll write a little parse tree.
Raises, what gets raised?
A noun phrase, and we'll write a little
two nouns here, interest rates.
And we'll have a verb phrase,
so raising interest rates.
And then we'll have the Fed,
make a little noun phrase.
And then we'll say, this is a sentence
that has a noun phrase, Fed,
and a verb phrase, raises.
And what gets raised is interest rates.
So this is called
a phrase structure parse.
We'll talk about that later in the course,
phrase structure.
So we could also write a dependency parse.
So we say the head verb, raises,
has an argument which is Fed, and
it has another dependent which is rates,
and rates itself has a dependent interest.
So we can see name verb is raising.
Well another interpretation of the very
same sentence, one that people don't see,
but that parsers see right away,
is that it's not raises that's the main
verb of the sentence, but interest.
Somebody interests something and that
something that gets interested is rates.
And what is interesting these rates?
Well it's Fed raises, raises by the Fed,
so it's a complete different sentence with
a different interpretation that
something is interesting the rates,
whatever that could mean.
And that seems an unlikely interpretation
for people, but of course for
a parser this is a perfectly
reasonable interpretation
that we have to learn how to rule out.
In fact,
the sentence can get even more difficult.
The actual headline was somewhat longer.
So we had Fed raises interest
rates half a percent.
Here we could imagine that rates is
the verb and now we have what is rating.
Fed raises interest,
the interest in Federal raises are rating
half a percent so we might have
a dependency structure like this.
So again interest rates,
the raises are what do the interesting and
the Fed is a modifier of raises.
So whether with our phrase structure
parse or our dependency parse, and
even more so as we add more words,
we're going to get more and
more ambiguity that have to be solved in
order to build a parse for each sentence.
Now the format of the course,
you're going to have in video quizzes.
And most lectures will
include a little quiz.
And they're there just to
check basic understanding.
They're simple, multiple choice questions.
You can retake them if you get them wrong.
Let's see one right now.
A number of other things making
natural language difficult.
One of them is the non standard
English that we frequently see in
text like Twitter feeds where
we have capitalization and
unusual spelling of words and
hashtags and user ids and so on.
So all of our parsers and part of
speech taggers that we're going to make
use of are often trained on very
clean newspaper text English,
but the actual English in the wild
will cause us a lot of problems.
We'll have a lot of segmentation problems.
For example, if we see the string Y-O-R-K
dash N-E-W is part of New York-New Haven,
how do we know the correct segmentation
is New York and New Haven?
So the New York-New Haven railroad,
and not something like York dash New.
This word here is not
a word like in dash law.
We have to solve the segmentation
problem correctly.
We have problems with idioms and with
new words that haven't been seen before.
And we'll also have
problems with entity names,
like the movie A Bug's Life
which has English words in it.
And so it's often difficult to know
where the movie name starts and ends.
And this comes up very often in
biology where we have genes and
proteins named with English words.
The task of natural language
understanding, it's very difficult,
what tools do we need?
Well we need knowledge about language,
knowledge about the world, and
a way to combine these knowledge sources.
So generally the way we do this
is to use probabilistic models
that are built from language data.
So for example,
if we see the word maison in French,
we very likely to translate that
as the word house in English.
On the other hand, if we see the word
L'avocat general in French we're very
unlikely to translate that
as the general avocado.
And training these probabilistic
models in general can be very hard.
But it turns out that we
can do an approximate job
of probabilistic models with
rough text features and
we'll introduce those rough
text features as we go.
So our goal in the class is
teaching key theory and methods for
statistical natural language processing.
We'll talk about the Viterbi algorithm,
Naive Bayes and Maxent classifiers.
We'll introduce n-gram language modeling,
and statistical parsing.
We'll talk about the inverted index and
tf-idf and vector models of meaning
that important in information retrieval.
And we'll do this for practical,
robust real world applications.
We'll talk about information extraction,
about spelling correction,
about information retrieval.
The skills you'll need for the task,
you'll need simple linear algebra, so
you should know what a vector is and
what a matrix is.
You should have some basic
probability theory, and
you'll need to know how to
program in either JAVA or
Python because there'll be
weekly programming assignments.
And you'll have your choice of languages.
We're very happy to welcome you to our
course on natural language processing and
we look forward to seeing
you in following lectures.